=head1 NAME

mrtg-mibhelp - A Table of some interesting OIDs

=head1 OVERVIEW

This File Contains a collection of interesting MIB Entries ...
mrtg knows about their names ... depending on the ASN.1 Syntax
you may have to put B<gauge> into the B<Options[]:> parameter.

For information about how to create a B<Target[]:> parameter which
references these MIB entries, please consult mrtg-reference.

=head1 MIB LIST

=head2 ifOperStatus

 Descriptor:		ifOperStatus
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.8
 ASN.1 Syntax:		INTEGER
 Enumeration:		up 1, down 2, testing 3

The current operational state of the interface.
The testing(3) state indicates that no operational
packets can be passed.

=head2 ifAdminStatus

 Descriptor:		ifAdminStatus
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.7
 ASN.1 Syntax:		INTEGER
 Enumeration:		up 1, down 2, testing 3

The current administrative state of the interface.
The testing(3) state indicates that no operational
packets can be passed.


=head2 ifInOctets

 Descriptor:            ifInOctets
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.10
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The total number of octets received on the
interface, including framing characters.

=head2 ifInUcastPkts

 Descriptor:            ifInUcastPkts
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.11
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The number of subnetwork-unicast packets
delivered to a higher-layer protocol.

=head2 ifInNUcastPkts

 Descriptor:            ifInNUcastPkts
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.12
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The number of non-unicast (i.e., subnetwork-
broadcast or subnetwork-multicast) packets
delivered to a higher-layer protocol.

=head2 ifInDiscards

 Descriptor:            ifInDiscards
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.13
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The number of inbound packets which were chosen
to be discarded even though no errors had been
detected to prevent their being deliverable to a
higher-layer protocol.  One possible reason for
discarding such a packet could be to free up
buffer space.

=head2 ifInErrors

 Descriptor:            ifInErrors
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.14
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The number of inbound packets that contained
errors preventing them from being deliverable to a
higher-layer protocol.

=head2 ifInUnknownProtos

 Descriptor:            ifInUnknownProtos
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.15
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The number of packets received via the interface
which were discarded because of an unknown or
unsupported protocol.

=head2 ifOutOctets

 Descriptor:            ifOutOctets
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.16
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The total number of octets transmitted out of the
interface, including framing characters.

=head2 ifOutUcastPkts

 Descriptor:            ifOutUcastPkts
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.17
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The total number of packets that higher-level
protocols requested be transmitted to a
subnetwork-unicast address, including those that
were discarded or not sent.

=head2 ifOutNUcastPkts

 Descriptor:             ifOutNUcastPkts
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.18
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The total number of packets that higher-level
protocols requested be transmitted to a non-
unicast (i.e., a subnetwork-broadcast or
subnetwork-multicast) address, including those
that were discarded or not sent.

=head2 ifOutDiscards

 Descriptor:             ifOutDiscards
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.19
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The number of outbound packets which were chosen
to be discarded even though no errors had been
detected to prevent their being transmitted.  One
possible reason for discarding such a packet could
be to free up buffer space.

=head2 ifOutErrors

 Descriptor:             ifOutErrors
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.20
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Counter32

The number of outbound packets that could not be
transmitted because of errors.

=head2 ifOutQLen

 Descriptor:             ifOutQLen
 Identifier:		1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.21
 ASN.1 Syntax:		Unsigned32

The length of the output packet queue (in
packets).

=head2 frInOctets

From: Simon Ferrett <simonf@world.net>

 'frInOctets' => '1.3.6.1.2.1.10.32.2.1.9'
 'frOutOctets' => '1.3.6.1.2.1.10.32.2.1.7'

which when used in the form:

 frInOctets.pp.dd&frOutOctets.pp.dd:community@cisco.router

where pp is the physical port that the frame relay pvc is
defined on and dd is the DLCI of the pvc gets you the in
and out octets for just that pvc.

=head2 ifAdminHack and ifOperHack

The return values of ifAdminStatus and ifOperStatus are not very useful
for graphing. Use ifOperHack and ifAdminHack instead. They return 1 for
UP and 0 otherwise.

Note these are not real MIB entities but mrtg hacks

=head2 PseudoZero and PseudoOne

will return 0 and 1 respectively

Note these are not real MIB entities but mrtg hacks

=head1 AUTHOR

Tobias Oetiker E<lt>tobi@oetiker.chE<gt>
