=head1 NAME

mrtg-reference - MRTG 2.17.4 configuration reference

=head1 OVERVIEW

The runtime behaviour of MRTG is governed by a configuration file.
Run-of-the-mill configuration files can be generated with B<cfgmaker>.
(Check L<cfgmaker>). But for more elaborate configurations some hand-tuning
is required.

This document describes all the configuration options understood by
the mrtg software.

=head1 SYNTAX

MRTG configuration file syntax follows some simple rules:

=over

=item *

Keywords must start at the beginning of a line.

=item *

Lines which follow a keyword line which start
with a blank are appended to the keyword line

=item *

Empty Lines are ignored

=item *

Lines starting with a # sign are comments.

=item *

You can add other files into the configuration file using

B<Include:> I<file>

Example:

 Include: base-options.inc

If included files are specified with relative paths, both the current
working directory and the directory containing the main config file will
be searched for the files.  The current working directory will be searched
first.

If the included filename contains an asterisk, then this is taken as a
wildcard for zero or more characters, and all matching files are included.
Thus, you can use this statement to include all files in a specified
subdirectory.

Example:

 Include: servers/*.cfg

In this case, you should be very careful that your wildcard pattern does not
find a match relative to the current working directory if you mean it to be
relative to the main config file directory, since the working directory is 
checked for a match first (as with a normal Include directive).  Therefore,
use of something like '*/*' is discouraged.

=back

=head1 GLOBAL KEYWORDS

=head2 WorkDir

WorkDir specifies where the logfiles and the webpages should
be created.

Example:

 WorkDir: /usr/tardis/pub/www/stats/mrtg

=head1 OPTIONAL GLOBAL KEYWORDS

=head2 HtmlDir

HtmlDir specifies the directory where the html (or shtml,
but we'll get on to those later) lives.

NOTE: Workdir overrides the settings for htmldir, imagedir
and logdir.

Example:

 Htmldir: /www/mrtg/

=head2 ImageDir

ImageDir specifies the directory where the images live. They
should be under the html directory.

Example:

 Imagedir: /www/mrtg/images

=head2 LogDir

LogDir specifies the directory where the logs are stored.
This need not be under htmldir directive.

Example:

 Logdir: /www/mrtg/logs

=head2 Forks (UNIX only)

With system that supports fork (UNIX for example), mrtg can fork itself into multiple
instances while it is acquiring data via snmp.

For situations with high latency or a great number of devices
this will speed things up considerably. It will not make things faster,
though, if you query a single switch sitting next door.

As far as I know NT can not fork so this option is not available on NT.

Example:

 Forks: 4

=head2 EnableIPv6

When set to yes, IPv6 support is enabled if the required libraries are
present (see the L<mrtg-ipv6> manpage). When IPv6 is enabled, mrtg can talk
to routers using SNMP over IPv6 and targets may be specified by their
numeric IPv6 addresses as well as by hostname or IPv4 address.

If IPv6 is enabled and the target is a hostname, mrtg will try to resolve
the hostname to an IPv6 address and, if this fails, to an IPv4 address.
Note that mrtg will only use IPv4 if you specify an IPv4 address or a
hostname with no corresponding IPv6 address; it will not fall back to IPv4
if it simply fails to communicate with the target using IPv6. This is by
design.

Note that many routers do not currently support SNMP over IPv6. Use the
I<IPv4Only> per target option for these routers.

IPv6 is disabled by default.

Example:

 EnableIPv6: Yes

=head2 EnableSnmpV3

When set to yes, uses the Net::SNMP module instead of the SNMP_SESSION module for
generating snmp queries.  This allows the use of SNMPv3 if other snmpv3 parameters
are set.

SNMPv3 is disabled by default.

Example:

 EnableSnmpV3: yes

=head2 Refresh

How many seconds apart should the browser (Netscape) be
instructed to reload the page? If this is not defined, the
default is 300 seconds (5 minutes).

Example:

 Refresh: 600

=head2 Interval

How often do you call mrtg? The default is 5 minutes. If
you call it less often, you should specify it here. 
This does two things:

=over

=item *

The generated HTML page contains the right
information about the calling interval ...

=item *

A META header in the generated HTML page will instruct
caches about the time-to-live of this page .....

=back

In this example, we tell mrtg that we will be calling it
every 10 minutes. If you are calling mrtg every 5
minutes, you can leave this line commented out.

Example:

 Interval: 10

Note that unless you are using rrdtool you can not set Interval to less
than 5 minutes. If you are using rrdtool you can set interval in the format 

 Interval: MM[:SS]

Down to 1 second. Note though, setting the Interval for an rrdtool/mrtg
setup will influence the initial creation of the database. If you change the
interval later, all existing databases will remain at the resolution they
were initially created with. Also note that you must make sure that your
mrtg-rrd Web-frontend can deal with this kind of Interval setting.

=head2 MaxAge

MRTG relies heavily on the real time clock of your computer. If the time is
set to a wrong value, especially if it is advanced far into the future,
this will cause mrtg to expire lots of supposedly old data from the log files.

To prevent this, you can add a 'reasonability' check by specifying a maximum
age for log files. If a file seems to be older, mrtg will not touch it but
complain instead, giving you a chance to investigate the cause.

Example:

 MaxAge: 7200

The example above will make mrtg refuse to update log files older than 2
hours (7200 seconds).


=head2 WriteExpires

With this switch mrtg will generate .meta files for CERN
and Apache servers which contain Expiration tags for the
html and gif files. The *.meta files will be created in
the same directory as the other files, so you will have
to set "MetaDir ." and "MetaFiles on"
in your apache.conf or .htaccess file for this to work

NOTE: If you are running Apache-1.2 or later, you can use the mod_expire
to achieve the same effect ... see the file htaccess.txt

Example:

 WriteExpires: Yes



=head2 NoMib2

Normally we ask the SNMP device for 'sysUptime' and 'sysName' properties.
Some do not have these. If you want to avoid getting complaints from
mrtg about these missing properties, specify the nomib2 option.

An example of agents which do not implement base mib2 attributes are
Computer Associates - Unicenter TNG Agents.  CA relies on using the base
OS SNMP agent in addition to its own agents to supplement the management
of a system.

Example:

 NoMib2: Yes

=head2 SingleRequest

Some SNMP implementations can not deal with requests asking for
multiple snmp variables in one go. Set this in your cfg file to force
mrtg to only ask for one variable per request.

Examples

 SingleRequest: Yes

=head2 SnmpOptions

Apart from the per target timeout options, you can also configure the
behaviour of the snmpget process on a more profound level. SnmpOptions
accepts a hash of options. The following options are currently supported:

 timeout       	  	   => $default_timeout,
 retries 		   => $default_retries,
 backoff 		   => $default_backoff,
 default_max_repetitions   => $max_repetitions,
 use_16bit_request_ids     => 1,
 lenient_source_port_matching => 0,
 lenient_source_address_matching => 1

The values behind the options indicate the current default value.
Note that these settings OVERRIDE the per target timeout settings.

A per-target SnmpOptions[] keyword will override the global settings.  
That keyword is primarily for SNMPv3.

The 16bit request ids are the only way to query the broken SNMP
implementation of SMC Barricade routers.

Example:

 SnmpOptions: retries => 2, only_ip_address_matching => 0

Note that AS/400 snmp seems to be broken in a way which prevents mrtg from
working with it unless 

 SnmpOptions: lenient_source_port_matching => 1

is set.

=head2 IconDir

If you want to keep the mrtg icons in someplace other than the
working (or imagedir) directory, use the I<IconDir> variable for
defining the url of the icons directory.

Example:

 IconDir: /mrtgicons/

=head2 LoadMIBs

Load the MIB file(s) specified and make its OIDs available as
symbolic names. For better efficiancy, a cache of MIBs is maintained
in the WorkDir.

Example:

 LoadMIBs: /dept/net/mibs/netapp.mib,/usr/local/lib/ft100m.mib

=head2 Language

Switch output format to the selected Language (Check the F<translate> directory
to see which languages are supported at the moment. In this directory you
can also find instructions on how to create new translations).

Currently the following laguages are supported: 

big5 
brazilian 
bulgarian 
catalan 
chinese 
croatian 
czech 
danish 
dutch 
eucjp 
french 
galician 
gb 
gb2312 
german 
greek 
hungarian 
icelandic 
indonesia 
iso2022jp 
italian 
korean 
lithuanian 
malay 
norwegian 
polish 
portuguese 
romanian 
russian 
russian1251 
serbian 
slovak 
slovenian 
spanish 
swedish 
turkish 
ukrainian 

Example:

 Language: danish

=head2 LogFormat

Setting LogFormat to 'rrdtool' in your mrtg.cfg file enables rrdtool mode.
In rrdtool mode, mrtg relies on B<rrdtool> to do its logging. See L<mrtg-rrd>.

Example:

 LogFormat: rrdtool

=head2 LibAdd

If you are using rrdtool mode and your B<rrdtool> Perl module (RRDs.pm)
is not installed in a location where perl can find it on its own, you can
use LibAdd to supply an appropriate path.

Example:

 LibAdd: /usr/local/rrdtool/lib/perl/

=head2 PathAdd

If the B<rrdtool> executable can not be found in the normal C<PATH>, you can
use this keyword to add a suitable directory to your path.

Example:

 PathAdd: /usr/local/rrdtool/bin/

=head2 RRDCached

If you are running RRDTool 1.4 or later with B<rrdcached>, then you can 
configure MRTG to take advantage of this for updates, either by using the 
RRDCACHED_ADDRESS environment variable, or by setting the RRDCached keyword 
in the configuration file.  Note that, if both are set, the configuration file
keyword will take precedence.

Only UNIX domain sockets are fully supported prior to RRDTool v1.5, and 
you should note that using RRDCached mode will disable all Threshold checking 
normally done by MRTG.  Appropriate warning messages will be printed if
necessary.

Examples:

 RRDCached: unix:/var/tmp/rrdcached.sock
 
 RRDCached: localhost:42217

=head2 RunAsDaemon

The RunAsDaemon keyword enables daemon mode operation. The purpose of daemon
mode is that MRTG is launched once and not repeatedly (as it is with cron). 
This behavior saves computing resourses as loading and parsing
of configuration files happens only once on startup, and if the configuration 
file is modified.

Using daemon mode MRTG itself is responible for timing the measurement
intervals. Therfore its important to set the Interval keyword to an
apropiate value.

Note that when using daemon mode MRTG should no longer be started from cron
as each new process runs forever. Instead MRTG should be
started from the command prompt or by a system startup script.

If you want mrtg to run under a particular user and group (it is not
recomended to run MRTG as root) then you can use the B<--user=>I<user_name>
and B<--group=>I<group_name> options on the mrtg commandline.

 mrtg --user=mrtg_user --group=mrtg_group mrtg.cfg

Also note that in daemon mode restarting the process is required in order to
activate changes in the config file.

Under UNIX, the Daemon switch causes mrtg to fork into background after
checking its config file. On Windows NT the MRTG process will detach from
the console, but because the NT/2000 shell waits for its children you have to
use this special start sequence when you launch the program:

 start /b perl mrtg mrtg.cfg

You may have to add path information equal to what you add when you run mrtg
from the commandline.

Example

 RunAsDaemon: Yes
 Interval:    5

This makes MRTG run as a daemon beginning data collection every 5 minutes

If you are daemontools and still want to run mrtg as a daemon you can
additionally specify

 NoDetach:     Yes

this will make mrtg run but without detaching it from the terminal.

If the modification date on the configuration file changes during operation,
then MRTG will re-read the configuration on the next polling cycle.  Note that
sub-files which are included from the main configuration do not have their
modification times monitored, only the top-level file is so checked.

=head2 ConversionCode

Some devices may produce non-numeric values that would nevertheless
be useful to graph with MRTG if those values could be converted to numbers.
The ConversionCode keyword specifies the path to a file containing Perl code
to perform such conversions. The code in this file must consist of one or more
Perl subroutines. Each subroutine must accept a single string argument and
return a single numeric value. When RRDtool is in use, a decimal value may
be returned. When the name of one of these subroutines is specified in a
target definition (see below), MRTG calls it twice for that target, once to
convert the the input value being monitored and a second time to convert the
output value. The subroutine must return an undefined value if the conversion
fails. In case of failure, a warning may be posted to the MRTG log file using
Perl's warn function. MRTG imports the subroutines into a separate name space
(package MRTGConversion), so the user need not worry about pollution of MRTG's
global name space. MRTG automatically prepends this package declaration to
the user-supplied code.

Example: Suppose a particular OID returns a character string whose length is
proportional to the value to be monitored. To convert this string to a
number that can be graphed by MRTG, create a file arbitrarily named
"MyConversions.pl" containing the following code:

 # Return the length of the string argument
 sub Length2Int {
   my $value = shift;
   return length( $value );
 }

Then include the following global keyword in the MRTG configuration file
(assuming that the conversion code file is saved in the mrtg/bin directory
along with mrtg itself):

 ConversionCode: MyConversions.pl

This will cause MRTG to include the definition of the subroutine Length2Int
in its execution environment. Length2Int can then be invoked on any target
by appending "|Length2Int" to the target definition as follows:

 Target[myrouter]: 1.3.6.1.4.1.999.1&1.3.6.1.4.1.999.1:public@mydevice|Length2Int

See "Extended Host Name Syntax" below for complete target definition syntax
information.


=head1 PER TARGET CONFIGURATION

Each monitoring target must be identified by a unique name. This
name must be appended to each parameter belonging to the same
target. The name will also be used for naming the
generated webpages, logfiles and images for this target.

=head2 Target

With the I<Target> keyword you tell mrtg what it should
monitor. The I<Target> keyword takes arguments in a wide
range of formats:

=over

=item Basic

The most basic format is "port:community@router"
This will generate a traffic graph for the interface 'port'
of the host 'router' (dns name or IP address)
and it will use the community 'community' (snmp password)
for the snmp query.

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: 2:public@wellfleet-fddi.domain

If your community contains a "@" or a " " these characters
must be escaped with a "\".

 Target[bla]: 2:stu\ pi\@d@router

=item SNMPv2c

If you have a fast router you might want to try to poll the ifHC* counters.
This feature gets activated by switching to SNMPv2c. Unfortunately not all
devices support SNMPv2c yet. If it works, this will prevent your counters
from wraping within the 5 minute polling interval, since we now use 64 bit
instead of the normal 32 bit.

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: 2:public@router1:::::2

=item SNMPv3

As an alternative to SNMPv2c, SNMPv3 provides access to the ifHC* counters,
along with encryption.  Not all devices support SNMPv3, and you will also
need the perl Net::SNMP library in order to use it.  It is recommended that
cfgmaker be used to generate configurations involving SNMPv3, as it will 
check if the Net::SNMP library is loadable, and will switch to SNMPv2c if
v3 is unavailable.

SNMP v3 requires additional authentication parameters, passed using the 
SnmpOptions[] per-target keyword.

Example:
  Target[myrouter]: 2:router1:::::3
  SnmpOptions[myrouter]: username=>'user1'

=item noHC

Not all routers that support SNMPv2 or SNMPv3 provide the ifHC* counters
on every interface.  The noHC[] per-target keyword signals that the
low-speed counters ifInOctets and ifOutOctets should be queried instead.
cfgmaker will automatically insert this tag if SNMPv2 or SNMPv3 is specified
but the ifHC* counters are unavailable.

Example:
  Target[myrouter]: #Bri0:router1:::::3
  SnmpOptions[myrouter]: username=>'user1'
  noHC[myrouter]: yes

=item Reversing

Sometimes you are sitting on the wrong side of the
link, and you would like to have mrtg report Incoming
traffic as Outgoing and vice versa. This can be achieved
by adding the '-' sign in front of the "Target"
description. It flips the incoming and outgoing traffic rates.

Example:

 Target[ezci]: -1:public@ezci-ether.domain

=item Explicit OIDs

You can also explicitly define which OID to query by using the
following syntax 'OID_1&OID_2:community@router'
The following example will retrieve error counts for input and output
on interface 1.  MRTG needs to graph two variables,
so you need to specify two OID's such as temperature and humidity
or error input and error output.

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: 1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.14.1&1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.20.1:public@myrouter

=item MIB Variables

MRTG knows a number of symbolic SNMP variable names.
See the file mibhelp.txt for a list of known names.
One example are the ifInErrors and ifOutErrors.
This means you can specify the above as:

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: ifInErrors.1&ifOutErrors.1:public@myrouter

=item SnmpWalk

It may be that you want to monitor an snmp object that is only reachable by
'walking'. You can get mrtg to walk by prepending the OID with the string
B<WaLK> or if you want a particular entry from the table returned by the walk
you can use B<WaLK>I<x> where I<x> is a number starting from 0 (!).

Example:

  Target[myrouter]: WaLKstrangeOid.1&WaLKstrangeOid.2:public@myrouter

  Target[myrouter]: WaLK3strangeOid.1&WaLK4strangeOid.2:public@myrouter


=item SnmpGetNext

A special case of an snmp object that is only reachable by 'walking' occurs 
when a single snmpgetnext will return the correct value, but snmpwalk fails.  
This may occur with snmp V2 or V3, as the snmpgetbulk method is used in these 
versions. You can get mrtg to use getnext instead of getbulk by prepending the 
OID with the string B<GeTNEXT>.

Example:

  Target[myrouter]: GeTNEXTstrangeOid&GeTNEXTstrangeOid:public@myrouter

=item Counted SNMP Walk

In other situations, an snmpwalk is needed to count rows, but the actual data
is uninteresting.  For example, counting the number of mac-addresses in a CAM 
table, or the number of simultaneous dialup sessions.  You can get MRTG to count 
the number of instances by prepending the OID with the string B<CnTWaLK>.  The 
following will retrieve the number of simultaneous VOIP calls on some routers:

Example:

   Target[myrouter]: CnTWaLK1.3.6.1.4.1.9.10.55.1.1.1.1.3&CnTWaLK1.3.6.1.4.1.9.10.55.1.1.1.1.3:public@myrouter

=item Interface by IP

Sometimes SNMP interface index can change, like when new interfaces are
added or removed. This can cause all Target entries in your config file
to become offset, causing MRTG to graphs wrong instances etc.
MRTG supports IP address instead of ifindex in target definition. Then
MRTG will query snmp device and try to map IP address to the current ifindex.
You can use IP addresses in every type of target definition by adding
IP address of the numbered interface after OID and separation char '/'.

Make sure that the given IP address is used on
your same target router, especially when graphing two different OIDs
and/or interface split by '&' delimiter.

You can tell cfgmaker to generate such references with the option
B<--ifref=ip>.

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: /1.2.3.4:public@wellfleet-fddi.domain
 Target[ezci]: -/1.2.3.4:public@ezci-ether.domain
 Target[myrouter]: ifInErrors/1.2.3.4&ifOutErrors/1.2.3.4:public@myrouter

=item Interface by Description

If you can not use IP addresses you might want to use
the interface names. This works similar to the IP address aproach
except that the prefix to use is a \ instead of a /

You can tell cfgmaker to generate such references with the option
B<--ifref=descr>.

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: \My-Interface2:public@wellfleet-fddi.domain
 Target[ezci]: -\My-Interface2:public@ezci-ether.domain
 Target[myrouter]: ifInErrors\My-If2&ifOutErrors\My-If3:public@myrouter

If your description contains a "&", a ":", a "@" or a " " you can include
them but you must escape with a backlash:

 Target[myrouter]: \fun\:\ ney\&ddd:public@hello.router

=item Interface by Name

This is the only sensible way to reference the interfaces of your switches.

You can tell cfgmaker to generate such references with the option
B<--ifref=name>.

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: #2/11:public@wellfleet-fddi.domain
 Target[ezci]: -#2/11:public@ezci-ether.domain
 Target[myrouter]: ifInErrors#3/7&ifOutErrors#3/7:public@myrouter

If your description contains a "&", a ":", a "@" or a " " you can include
them but you must escape with a backlash:

 Target[myrouter]: #\:\ fun:public@hello.router

Note that the # sign will be interpreted as a comment character if
it is the first non white-space character on the line.

=item Interface by Ethernet Address

When the SNMP interface index changes, you can key that interface by its
'Physical Address', sometimes called a 'hard address', which is the SNMP
variable 'ifPhysAddress'.  Internally, MRTG matches the Physical Address from
the *.cfg file to its current index, and then uses that index for the rest of
the session.

You can use the Physical Address in every type of target definition by adding
the Physical Address after the OID and the separation char '!' (analogous to the IP
address option).  The Physical address is specified as '-' delimited
octets, such as "0a-0-f1-5-23-18" (omit the double quotes). Note that some
routers use the same Hardware Ethernet Address for all of their Interfaces which
prevents unique interface identification. Mrtg will notice such problems and alert you.

You can tell cfgmaker to generate configuration files with hardware ethernet address references
by using the option B<--ifref=eth>.

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: !0a-0b-0c-0d:public@wellfleet-fddi.domain
 Target[ezci]: -!0-f-bb-05-71-22:public@ezci-ether.domain
 Target[myrouter]: 1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.14!0a-00-10-23-44-51& *BREAK*
            1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.14!0a-00-10-23-44-51:public@myrouter
 Target[myrouter]: ifInErrors!0a-00-10-23-44-51& *BREAK*
            ifOutErrors!0a-00-10-23-44-51:public@myrouter


Join the lines at *BREAK* ...

=item Interface by Type

It seems that there are devices that try to defy all monitoring efforts: the interesting interfaces have
neither ifName nor a constant ifDescr not to mention a persistent ifIndex. The only way to get a constant
mapping is by looking at the interface type, because the interface you are interested in is unique in the
device you are looking at ...

You can tell cfgmaker to generate such references with the option
B<--ifref=type>.

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: %13:public@wellfleet-fddi.domain
 Target[ezci]: -%13:public@ezci-ether.domain
 Target[myrouter]: ifInErrors%13&ifOutErrors%14:public@myrouter

=item Extended positioning of ifIndex


There are OIDs that contain the interface index at some inner position within
the OID. To use the above mentioned Interface by IP/Description/Name/Type methods 
in the target definition the keyword 'IndexPOS' can be used to indicate the 
position of ifIndex. If 'IndexPOS' is not used the ifIndex will be appended at the
end of the OID.

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: OID.IndexPOS.1/1.2.3.4&OID.IndexPOS.1/1.2.3.4:public@myrouter

Replace OID by your numeric OID.

=item Extended Host Name Syntax

In all places where ``community@router'' is accepted, you can add
additional parameters for the SNMP communication using
colon-separated suffixes. You can also append a pipe symbol ( | ) and
the name of a numeric conversion subroutine as described under the global
keyword "ConversionCode" above. The full syntax is as follows:

 community@router[:[port][:[timeout][:[retries][:[backoff][:[version]][|name]]]]]

where the meaning of each parameter is as follows:

=over

=item port

the UDP port under which to contact the SNMP agent (default: 161)

The complete syntax of the port parameter is 

 remote_port[!local_address[!local_port]]

Some machines have additional security features that only allow SNMP queries
to come from certain IP addresses. If the host doing the query has multiple
interface, it may be necessary to specify the interface the query should
come from.

The port parameter allows the specification of the port of the machine being
queried. In addition, the IP address (or hostname) and port of the machine
doing the query may be specified.

Examples:

 somehost
 somehost:161
 somehost:161!192.168.2.4!4000 use 192.168.2.4 and port 4000 as source
 somehost:!192.168.2.4 use 192.168.2.4 as source
 somehost:!!4000 use port 4000 as source

=item timeout

initial timeout for SNMP queries, in seconds (default: 2.0)

=item retries

number of times a timed-out request will be retried (default: 5)

=item backoff

factor by which the timeout is multiplied on every retry (default: 1.0).

=item version

for SNMP version. If you have a fast router you might want to put
a '2' here.  For authenticated or encrypted SNMP, you can try to put a
'3' here.  This will make mrtg try to poll the 64 bit counters and thus
prevent excessive counter wrapping. Not all routers support this though.
SNMP v3 requires additional setup, see SnmpOptions[] for full details.

Example:

 3:public@router1:::::2

=item name

the name of the subroutine that MRTG will call to convert the input and output
values to integers. See the complete example under the global keyword
"ConversionCode" above.

Example:

 1.3.6.1.4.1.999.1&1.3.6.1.4.1.999.2:public@mydevice:161::::2|Length2Int

This would retrieve values from the OID 1.3.6.1.4.1.999.1 for input and .2
for output on mydevice using UDP port 161 and SNMP version 2, and would
execute the user-defined numeric conversion subroutine Length2Int to convert
those values to integers.

=back

A value that equals the default value can be omitted.  Trailing colons
can be omitted, too. The pipe symbol followed by the name parameter, if
present, must come at the end. There must be no spaces around the colons or
pipe symbol.

Example:

  Target[ezci]: 1:public@ezci-ether.domain:9161::4

This would refer to the input/output octet counters for the interface
with I<ifIndex 1> on I<ezci-ether.domain>, as known
by the SNMP agent listening on UDP port 9161.  The standard initial
timeout (2.0 seconds) is used, but the number of retries is set to
four.  The backoff value is the default.

=item Numeric IPv6 addresses

If IPv6 is enabled you may also specify a target using its IPv6 address. To
avoid ambiguity with the port number, numeric IPv6 addresses must be placed
in square brackets.

Example:

 Target[IPv6test]: 2:public@[2001:760:4::]:6161::4

=item External Monitoring Scripts

If you want to monitor something which does not provide
data via snmp you can use some external program to do
the data gathering.

The external command must return 4 lines of output:

=over

=item Line 1

current state of the first variable, normally 'incoming bytes count'

=item Line 2

current state of the second variable, normally 'outgoing bytes count'


=item Line 3

string (in any human readable format), telling the uptime of the target.

=item Line 4

string, telling the name of the target.

=back

Depending on the type of data your script returns you
might want to use the 'gauge' or 'absolute' arguments
for the I<Options> keyword.

Example:

 Target[myrouter]: `/usr/local/bin/df2mrtg /dev/dsk/c0t2d0s0`

Note the use of the backticks (`), not apostrophes (')
around the command.

If you want to use a backtick in the command name this can be done
but you must escape it with a backslash ...

If your script does not have any data to return but does not want mrtg to
complain about invalid data, it can return 'UNKNOWN' instead of a number.
Note though that only rrdtool is realy equipped to handle unknown data well.

=item Multi Target Syntax

You can also combine several target definitions in a mathematical expression.
Any syntactically correct expression that the Perl interpreter can evaluate
to will work. An expression could be used, for example, to aggregate both B
channels in an ISDN connection or to calculate the percentage hard disk
utilization of a server from the absolute used space and total capacity.

Examples:

 Target[myrouter]: 2:public@wellfleetA + 1:public@wellfleetA

 Target[myrouter]: .1.3.6.1.4.1.999.1&.1.3.6.1.4.1.999.2:public@mydevice /
     .1.3.6.1.4.1.999.3&.1.3.6.1.4.1.999.4:public@mydevice * 100

Note that whitespace must surround each target definition in the expression.
Target definitions themselves must not contain whitespace, except in
interface descriptions and interface names, where each whitespace character
is escaped by a backslash.

MRTG automatically rounds the result of the expression to an integer unless
RRDTool logging is in use and the gauge option is in effect for the target.
Internally MRTG uses Perl's Math::BigFloat package to calculate the result
of the expression with 40 digits of precision. Even in extreme cases, where,
for example, you take the difference of two 64-bit integers, the result of
the expression should be accurate.

=item SNMP Request Optimization

MRTG is designed to economize on its SNMP requests. Where a target
definition appears more than once in the configuration file, MRTG requests
the data from the device only once per round of data collection and uses
the collected data for each instance of a particular target. Recognition of
two target definitions as being identical is based on a simple string match
rather than any kind of deeper semantic analysis.

Example:

 Target[Targ1]: 1:public@CiscoA
 Target[Targ2]: 2:public@CiscoA
 Target[Targ3]: 1:public@CiscoA + 2:public@CiscoA
 Target[Targ4]: 1:public@CISCOA

This results in a total of three SNMP requests. Data for 1:public@CiscoA
and 2:public@CiscoA are requested only once each, and used for Targ1, Targ2,
and Targ3. Targ4 causes another SNMP request for 1:public@CISCOA, which is not
recognized as being identical to 1:public@CiscoA.

=back

=head2 MaxBytes

The maximum value either of the two variables monitored
are allowed to reach. For monitoring router traffic
this is normally the bytes per second this
interface port can carry.

If a number higher than I<MaxBytes> is returned, it is ignored.
Also read the section on I<AbsMax> for further info.
The I<MaxBytes> value is also used in calculating the Y range
for unscaled graphs (see the section on I<Unscaled>).

Since most links are rated in bits per second, you need to divide their
maximum bandwidth (in bits) by eight (8) in order to get bytes per second. 
This is very important to make your unscaled graphs display realistic
information. T1 = 193000, 56K = 7000, 10 MB Ethernet = 1250000, 100 MB
Ethernet = 12500000. The I<MaxBytes> value will be used by mrtg to decide
whether it got a valid response from the router.

If you need two different MaxBytes values for the two monitored
variables, you can use MaxBytes1 and MaxBytes2 instead of MaxBytes.

Example:

 MaxBytes[myrouter]: 1250000

=head2 Title

Title for the HTML page which gets generated for the graph.

Example:

 Title[myrouter]: Traffic Analysis for Our Nice Company

=head1 OPTIONAL PER TARGET KEYWORDS

=head2 PageTop

Things to add to the top of the generated HTML page.  Note
that you can have several lines of text as long as the
first column is empty.

Note that the continuation lines will all end up on the same
line in the html page. If you want linebreaks in the generated
html use the '\n' sequence.

Example:

 PageTop[myrouter]: <H1>Traffic Analysis for ETZ C95.1</H1>
   Our Campus Backbone runs over an FDDI line\n
   with a maximum transfer rate of 12.5 megabytes per
   Second.

=head2 RouterUptime

In cases where you calculate the used bandwidth from
several interfaces you normally don't get the router uptime
and router name displayed on the web page.

If these interfaces are on the same router and the uptime and
name should be displayed you have to specify
its community and address again with the I<RouterUptime> keyword.

If you want to use a special OID for querying the router uptime,
use prepend the oid.

Example:

 Target[kacisco.comp.edu]: 1:public@194.64.66.250 + 2:public@194.64.66.250
 RouterUptime[kacisco.comp.edu]: public@194.64.66.250

 RouterUptime[kacisco.comp.edu]: hrSystemUptime.0:public@194.64.66.250
 
 


=head2 RouterName

If the default name of the router is incorrect/uninformative,
you can use RouterName to specify a different OID on either the
same or a different host.

A practical example: sysName on BayTech DS72 units always display
"ds72", no matter what you set the Unit ID to be.  Instead, the
Unit ID is stored at 1.3.6.1.4.1.4779.1.1.3.0, so we can have
MRTG display this instead of sysName.


Example:

 RouterName[kacisco.comp.edu]: 1.3.6.1.4.1.4779.1.1.3.0

A different OID on a different host can also be specified:

 RouterName[kacisco.comp.edu]: 1.3.6.1.4.1.4779.1.1.3.0:public@194.64.66.251


=head2 MaxBytes1

Same as MaxBytes, for variable 1.

=head2 MaxBytes2

Same as MaxBytes, for variable 2.

=head2 IPv4Only

Many IPv6 routers do not currently support SNMP over IPv6 and must
be monitored using IPv4. The IPv4Only option forces mrtg to use IPv4
when communicating with the target, even if IPv6 is enabled. This is
useful if the target is a hostname with both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses;
without the IPv4Only keyword, monitoring such a router will not work
if IPv6 is enabled.

If set to no (the default), mrtg will use IPv6 unless the target has
no IPv6 addresses, in which case it will use IPv4. If set to yes, mrtg
will only use IPv4.

Note that if this option is set to yes and the target does not have an
IPv4 address, communication with the target will fail.

This option has no effect if IPv6 is not enabled.

Example:

 Target[v4onlyrouter_1]: 1:public@v4onlyrouter
 IPv4Only[v4onlyrouter_1]: Yes

=head2 SnmpOptions (V3)

SNMPv3 requires a fairly rich set of options.  This per-target keyword
allows access to the User Security Model of SNMPv3.  Options are listed
in the same syntax as a perl hash.

=head3 Security Modes

SNMPv3 has three security modes, defined on the device being polled.
For example, on Cisco routers the security mode is defined by the
snmp-server group global configuration command.

=over

=item NoAuthNoPriv

Neither Authentication nor Privacy is defined.  Only the Username 
option is specified for this mode.

Example:

 SnmpOptions[myrouter]: username=>'user1'

=item AuthNoPriv

Uses a Username and a password.  The password can be hashed using the 
snmpkey application, or passed in plain text along with the ContextEngineID

Example:

 SnmpOptions[myrouter]: username=>'user1',authpassword=>'example',
   contextengineid=>'80000001110000004000000'

=item Priv

Both Authentication and Privacy is defined.  The default privacy protocol
is des.

Example:
 SnmpOptions[myrouter]: authkey=>'0x1e93ab5a396e2af234c8920e61cfe2028072c0e2',
   authprotocol=>'sha',privprotocol=>'des',username=>'user1',
   privkey=>'0x498d74940c5872ed387201d74b9b25e2'

=back

=head3 snmp options

The following option keywords are recognized:

=over

=item username

The user associated with the User Security Model

=item contextname

An SNMP agent can define multiple contexts.  This keyword allows them to
be polled.

=item contextengineid

A unique 24-byte string identifying the snmp-agent.

=item authpassword

The plaintext password for a user in either AuthNoPriv or Priv mode.

=item authkey

A md5 or sha hash of the plain-text password, along with the engineid.
Use the snmpkey commandline program to generate this hash, or use
Net::SNMP::Security::USM in a script.

=item authprotocol {sha|md5}

The hashing algorithm defined on the SNMP client.  Defaults to md5.

=item privpassword

A plaintext pre-shared key for encrypting snmp packets in Priv mode.

=item privkey

A hash of the plain-text pre-shared key, along with the engineid.
Use the snmpkey commandline program to generate this hash, or use
Net::SNMP::Security::USM in a script.

=item privprotocol {des|3desede|aescfb128|aescfb192|aescfb256}

Specifies the encryption method defined on the snmp agent.  The default
is des.

=back

=head2 PageFoot

Things to add to the bottom of the generated HTML page.  Note
that you can have several lines of text as long as the
first column is empty.

Note that the continuation lines will all end up on the same
line in the html page. If you want linebreaks in the generated
html use the '\n' sequence.

The material will be added just before the E<lt>/BODYE<gt> tag:

Example:

 PageFoot[myrouter]: Contact <A HREF="mailto:peter@x.yz">Peter</A>
  if you have questions regarding this page

=head2 AddHead

Use this tag like the I<PageTop> header, but its contents
will be added between E<lt>/TITLEE<gt> and E<lt>/HEADE<gt>.

Example:

 AddHead[myrouter]: <link rev="made" href="mailto:mrtg@blabla.edu">

=head2 BodyTag

BodyTag lets you supply your very own E<lt>body ...E<gt> tag for the
generated webpages.

Example:

 BodyTag[myrouter]: <BODY LEFTMARGIN="1" TOPMARGIN="1" 
                      BACKGROUND="/stats/images/bg.neo2.gif">

=head2 AbsMax

If you are monitoring a link which can handle more traffic than the
I<MaxBytes> value. Eg, a line which uses compression or some frame relay
link, you can use the I<AbsMax> keyword to give the absolute maximum value
ever to be reached. We need to know this in order to sort out unrealistic
values returned by the routers. If you do not set I<AbsMax>, rateup will
ignore values higher than I<MaxBytes>.

Example:

 AbsMax[myrouter]: 2500000

=head2 Unscaled

By default each graph is scaled vertically to make the actual data visible
even when it is much lower than I<MaxBytes>.  With the I<Unscaled> variable
you can suppress this.  It's argument is a string, containing one letter for
each graph you don't want to be scaled: d=day w=week m=month y=year.  There
is also a special case to unset the variable completely: n=none. This could
be useful in the event you need to override a global configuration. In the
example scaling for the yearly and the monthly graph are suppressed.

Example:

 Unscaled[myrouter]: ym

=head2 WithPeak

By default the graphs only contain the average
values of the monitored variables - normally the
transfer rates for incoming and outgoing traffic.
The following option instructs mrtg to display the peak
5 minute values in the [w]eekly, [m]onthly and
[y]early graph. In the example we define the monthly
and the yearly graph to contain peak as well as average
values.

Examples:

 WithPeak[myrouter]: ym

=head2 Suppress

By default mrtg produces 4 graphs. With this option
you can suppress the generation of selected graphs.
The option value syntax is analogous to the above two options.
In this example we suppress the yearly graph
as it is quite empty in the beginning.

Example:

 Suppress[myrouter]: y

=head2 Extension

By default, mrtg creates .html files. Use this option to tell mrtg to
use a different extension. For example you could set the extension to
php3, then you will be able to enclose PHP tags into the output (useful
for getting a router name out of a database).

Example:

 Extension[myrouter]: phtml

=head2 Directory

By default, mrtg puts all the files that it generates for each
target (the GIFs, the HTML page, the log file, etc.) in I<WorkDir>.

If the I<Directory> option is specified, the files are instead put
into a directory under I<WorkDir> or Log-, Image- and HtmlDir).
(For example the I<Directory>
option below would cause all the files for a target myrouter
to be put into directory /usr/tardis/pub/www/stats/mrtg/myrouter/ .)

The directory must already exist; mrtg will not create it.

Example:

 WorkDir: /usr/tardis/pub/www/stats/mrtg
 Directory[myrouter]: myrouter

NOTE: the Directory option must always be 'relative' or bad things will happen.

=head2 Clonedirectory

If the I<Directory> option is specified, the I<Clonedirectory> option will copy
all the contents of I<Directory> to the I<Clonedirectory>. 

Example:

 WorkDir: /usr/tardis/pub/www/stats/mrtg
 Directory[myrouter]: myrouter
 Clonedirectory[myrouter]: myclonedirectory

Optionally the target name can be changed in the cloning process.

Example:

 WorkDir: /usr/tardis/pub/www/stats/mrtg
 Directory[myrouter]: myrouter
 Clonedirectory[myrouter]: myclonedirectory mynewtarget

NOTE1: The clone directory must already exist; mrtg will not create it.

NOTE2: The Clonedirectory option must also always be 'relative' or bad things will happen.

NOTE3: This requires the File::Copy module

=head2 XSize and YSize

By default mrtgs graphs are 100 by 400 pixels wide (plus
some more for the labels. In the example we get almost
square graphs ...

Note: XSize must be between 20 and 600; YSize must be larger than 20

Example:

 XSize[myrouter]: 300
 YSize[myrouter]: 300

=head2 XZoom and YZoom

If you want your graphs to have larger pixels, you can
"Zoom" them.

Example:

 XZoom[myrouter]: 2.0
 YZoom[myrouter]: 2.0

=head2 XScale and YScale

If you want your graphs to be actually scaled use I<XScale>
and I<YScale>. (Beware: while this works, the results look ugly
(to be frank) so if someone wants to fix this: patches are welcome.

Example:

 XScale[myrouter]: 1.5
 YScale[myrouter]: 1.5


=head2 YTics and YTicsFactor

If you want to show more than 4 lines per graph, use YTics.
If you want to scale the value used for the YLegend of these
tics, use YTicsFactor.
The default value for YTics is 4 and the default value for
YTicsFactor is 1.0 .


Example:

Suppose you get values ranging from 0 to 700.
You want to plot 7 lines and want to show
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 instead of 0, 100, 200,
300, 400, 500, 600, 700.  You should write then:

  YTics[myrouter]: 7
  YTicsFactor[myrouter]: 0.01

=head2 Factor

If you want to multiply all numbers shown below the graph with a constant factor, use
this directive to define it ..

Example:

  Factor[as400]: 4096

=head2 Step

Change the default step from 5 * 60 seconds to
something else (I have not tested this much ...)

Example:

 Step[myrouter]: 60

=head2 PNGTitle

When using rateup for graph generation, this will print the given title in the 
graph it generates. 

Example:

 PNGTitle[myrouter]: WAN Link UK-US 

=head2 Options

The I<Options> Keyword allows you to set some boolean
switches:

=over

=item growright

The graph grows to the left by default.
This option flips the direction of growth
causing the current time to be at the right edge
of the graph and the history values to the left of it.

=item bits

All the monitored variable values are multiplied by 8
(i.e. shown in bits instead of bytes) ... looks much more impressive :-)
It also affects the 'factory default' labeling and units
for the given target.

=item perminute

All the monitored variable values are multiplied by 60
(i.e. shown in units per minute instead of units per second) in case
of small values more accurate graphs are displayed.
It also affects the 'factory default' labeling and units
for the given target.

=item perhour

All the monitored variable values are multiplied by 3600
(i.e. shown in units per hour instead of units per second) in case
of small values more accurate graphs are displayed.
It also affects the 'factory default' labeling and units
for the given target.

=item noinfo

Suppress the information about uptime and
device name in the generated webpage.

=item nopercent

Don't print usage percentages.

=item transparent

Make the background of the generated gifs transparent.

=item integer

Print summary lines below graph as integers without commas.

=item dorelpercent

The relative percentage of IN-traffic to OUT-traffic is calculated
and displayed in the graph as an additional line.
Note: Only a fixed scale is available (from 0 to 100%). Therefore
if IN-traffic is greater than OUT-traffic then 100% is displayed.
If you suspect that your IN-traffic is not always less than or equal
to your OUT-traffic you are urged to not use this options.
Note: If you use this option in combination with the I<Colours>
options, a fifth colour-name colour-value pair is required there.

=item avgpeak

There are some ISPs who use the average Peak values to bill their customers.
Using this option MRTG displays these values for each graph. The value is
built by averaging the max 5 minute traffic average for each 'step' shown in
the graph. For the Weekly graph this means that it builds the average of all
2 hour intervals 5 minute peak values. (Confused? Thought so!)

=item gauge

Treat the values gathered from target as 'current status' measurements
and not as ever incrementing counters.
This would be useful to monitor things like disk space,
processor load, temperature, and the like ...

In the absence of 'gauge' or 'absolute' options,
MRTG treats variables as a counters and calculates
the difference between the current and the previous value
and divides that by the elapsed time between
the last two readings to get the value to be plotted.

=item absolute

This is for counter type data sources which reset their value when they are
read. This means that rateup does not have to build the difference between
the current and the last value read from the data source. The value obtained is
still divided by the elapsed time between the current and the last reading, which makes
it different from the 'gauge' option. Useful for external data gatherers.

=item derive

If you are using rrdtool as logger/grapher you can use a third type of data
source. Derive is like counter, except that it is not required to go UP all
the time. It is useful for situations where the change of some value should be
graphed. 

=item unknaszero

Log unknown data as zero instead of the default behaviour of repeating the
last value seen. Be careful with this, often a flat line in the graph is
much more obvious than a line at 0.

=item withzeroes

Normally we ignore all values which are zero when calculating the average
transfer rate on a line. If this is not desirable use this option.

=item noborder

If you are using rateup to log data, MRTG will create the graph images.
Normally these images have a shaded border around them. If you do not want the
border to be drawn, enable this option. This option has no effect if you are
not using rateup.

=item noarrow

As with the option above, this effects rateup graph generation only. Normally
rateup will generate graphs with a small arrow showing the direction of the
data. If you do not want this arrow to be drawn, enable this option. This
option has no effect if you are not using rateup.

=item noi

When using rateup for graph generation, you can use this option to stop rateup
drawing a graph for the 'I' or first variable. This also removes entries for
this variable in the HTML page MRTG generates, and will remove the peaks for
this variable if they are enabled. This allows you to hide this data, or can
be very useful if you are only graphing one line of data rather than two.
This option is not destructive - any data received for the the variable
continued to be logged, it just isn't shown.

=item noo

Same as above, except relating to the 'O' or second variable.

=item nobanner

When using rateup for graph generation, this option disables MRTG adding the
MRTG banner to the HTML pages it generates.

=item nolegend

When using rateup for graph generation, this option will stop MRTG from creating
a legend at the bottom of the HTML pages it generates.

=item printrouter

When using rateup for graph generation, this option will print the router  
name in the graph it generates.  This option is overridden by the value of
PNGTitle if one is given

=item pngdate

When using rateup for graph generation, this option will print a
timestamp in the graph it generates, including a timezone if one is specified
by the 'Timezone' parameter. This is aequivalent to setting TimeStrPost[x]: RU

=item logscale

The B<logscale> option causes rateup to display the data with the Y axis
scaled logarithmically.  Doing so allows the normal traffic to occupy
the majority of the vertical range, while still showing any spikes at
their full height.

B<logscale> displays all the available data and will always produce
well-behaved graphs.  People often consider a logarithmically scaled graph
counterintuitive, however, and thus hard to interpret.

=item expscale

The B<expscale> option causes rateup to display the data with the Y axis
scaled exponentially.  Doing so emphasizes small changes at the top of
the scale; this can be useful when graphing values that fluctuate by
a small amount near the top of the scale, such as line voltage.

B<expscale> is essentially the inverse of B<logscale>.

=item secondmean

The B<secondmean> option sets the maximum value on the graph to the mean
of the data greater than the mean of all data.  This produces a graph
that focuses more on the typical data, while clipping large peaks.

Using B<secondmean> will give a more intutive linearly
scaled graph, but can result in a uselessly high or low scale in some
rare situations (specifically, when the data includes a large portion
of values far from the actual mean)

If a target includes both B<logscale> and B<secondmean> in the options, the
B<secondmean> takes precedence.

=back

Example:

 Options[myrouter]: growright, bits


=head2 kilo

Use this option to change the multiplier value for building
prefixes. Defaultvalue is 1000. This tag is for the special
case that 1kB = 1024B, 1MB = 1024kB and so far.

Example:

 kilo[myrouter]: 1024


=head2 kMG

Change the default multiplier prefixes (,k,M,G,T,P). In the tag
I<ShortLegend> define only the basic units.
Format: Comma separated list of prefixed. Two consecutive commas
or a comma at start or end of the line gives no prefix on this item.
If you do not want prefixes, just put two consecutive commas.
If you want to skip a magnitude select '-' as value.

Example: velocity in nm/s (nanometers per second) displayed in nm/h.

 ShortLegend[myrouter]: m/h
 kMG[myrouter]: n,u,m,,k,M,G,T,P
 options[myrouter]: perhour


=head2 Colours

The I<Colours> tag allows you to override the default colour
scheme.  Note: All 4 of the required colours must be
specified here. The colour name ('Colourx' below) is the
legend name displayed, while the RGB value is the real
colour used for the display, both on the graph and in the
html doc.

Format is: Col1#RRGGBB,Col2#RRGGBB,Col3#RRGGBB,Col4#RRGGBB

Important:
If you use the I<dorelpercent> options tag a fifth colour name
colour value pair is required:
Col1#RRGGBB,Col2#RRGGBB,Col3#RRGGBB,Col4#RRGGBB,Col5#RRGGBB

=over 4

=item Colour1

First variable (normally Input) on default graph.

=item Colour2

Second variable (normally Output) on default graph.

=item Colour3

Max first variable (input).

=item Colour4

Max second variable (output).

=item RRGGBB

2 digit hex values for Red, Green and Blue.

=back

Example:

 Colours[myrouter]: GREEN#00eb0c,BLUE#1000ff,DARK GREEN#006600,VIOLET#ff00ff

=head2 Background

With the I<Background> tag you can configure the background
colour of the generated HTML page.

Example:

 Background[myrouter]: #a0a0a0a

=head2 YLegend, ShortLegend, Legend[1234]

The following keywords allow you to override the text
displayed for the various legends of the graph and in the
HTML document:

=over

=item YLegend

The Y-axis label of the graph. Note that a text which is too long
to fit in the graph will be silently ignored.

=item ShortLegend

The units string (default 'b/s') used for Max, Average and Current

=item Legend[1234IO]

The strings for the colour legend.

=back

Example:

  YLegend[myrouter]: Bits per Second
  ShortLegend[myrouter]: b/s
  Legend1[myrouter]: Incoming Traffic in Bits per Second
  Legend2[myrouter]: Outgoing Traffic in Bits per Second
  Legend3[myrouter]: Maximal 5 Minute Incoming Traffic
  Legend4[myrouter]: Maximal 5 Minute Outgoing Traffic
  LegendI[myrouter]: &nbsp;In:
  LegendO[myrouter]: &nbsp;Out:

Note, if I<LegendI> or I<LegendO> are set to an empty string with

 LegendO[myrouter]:

The corresponding line below the graph will not be printed at all.

=head2 Timezone

If you live in an international world, you might want to
generate the graphs in different timezones. This is set in the
TZ variable. Under certain operating systems like Solaris,
this will provoke the localtime call to give the time in
the selected timezone.

Example:

 Timezone[myrouter]: Japan

The Timezone is the standard timezone of your system, ie Japan, Hongkong,
GMT, GMT+1 etc etc.

=head2 Weekformat

By default, mrtg (actually rateup) uses the strftime(3) '%V' option to
format week numbers in the monthly graphs.  The exact semantics of this
format option vary between systems.  If you find that the week numbers are
wrong, and your system's strftime(3) routine supports it, you can try
another format option.  The POSIX '%V' option correspond to the widely used
ISO 8601 week numbering standard.  The week format character should be
specified as a single letter; either W, V, or U.

The UNIX version of rateup uses the libc implementation of strftime.
On Windows, the native strftime implementation does not know about
%V. So there we use a different implementation of strftime that does
support %V.

Example:

 Weekformat[myrouter]: W

=head2 RRDRowCount

This affects the creation of new rrd files. By default rrds are created to
hold about 1 day's worth of high resolution data. (plus 1 week of 30 minute
data, 2 months of 2 hour data and 2 years of 1 day data).  With this Keyword
you can change the number of base interval entries configured for new rrds
as they get created. Note that you must take the interval time into account.

Example:

 RRDRowCount[myrouter]: 1600

=head2 RRDRowCount30m

As per RRDRowCount, but for the RRA's -typically- used for 30 minute data.
Even so, you must still take the base interval into account.  Leaving out
this keyword will force the old default of 800 rows.

Example:

 RRDRowCount30m[myrouter]: 800

=head2 RRDRowCount2h

As per RRDRowCount, but for the RRA's -typically- used for 2 hour data.
Even so, you must still take the base interval into account.  Leaving out
this keyword will force the old default of 800 rows.

Example:

 RRDRowCount2h[myrouter]: 400

=head2 RRDRowCount1d

As per RRDRowCount, but for the RRA's -typically- used for 1 day data.
Even so, you must still take the base interval into account.  Leaving out
this keyword will force the old default of 800 rows.

Example:

 RRDRowCount1d[myrouter]: 200

=head2 RRDHWRRAs

Normally the RRDs created by MRTG will just contain the information gathered
directly from the respective target. With this option you can tap into
rrdtools advanced aberrant behaviour detection module based on Holt-Winters
forecasting. The RRDHWRRAs property specifies the Holt-Winters RRAs as
described in the rrdcreate manual page. 

Note, this setting will only affect newly created RRDs (targets).

Example:

 RRDHWRRAs[myrouter]: RRA:HWPREDICT:1440:0.1:0.0035:288

=head2 TimeStrPos

This defines placement of the timestamp string on the image. Possible
values are RU, LU, RL, LL (which stand, respectively, for RightUpper,
LeftUpper, RightLower and LeftLower corner) and NO (for no timestamp).
By default, no timestamp is placed on the image.

Example:

 TimeStrPos[myrouter]: RU

=head2 TimeStrFmt

Using this keyword you may specify format of the timestamp to be placed
on the image (if enabled by the TimeStrPos keyword). Specified string
will be used by the strftime() function - see strftime(3) documentation
for conversion specifiers available on your system.
Default format: %Y-%m-%d %H:%M

Example:

 TimeStrFmt[myrouter]: %H:%M:%S

=head1 THRESHOLD CHECKING

Through its threshold checking functionality mrtg is able to detect
threshold problems for the various targets and can call external
scripts to handle those problems (e.g. send email or a page to an administrator).

Threshold checking is configured through the following parameters:

=head2 ThreshDir (GLOBAL)

By defining ThreshDir to point to a writable directory, MRTG will only alert
you when a threshold boundary has been crossed. 

Example:

 ThreshDir: /var/mrtg/thresh

=head2 ThreshHyst (GLOBAL)

If a threshold is broken, and you have a threshdir defined, then mrtg will
send mail once the threshold becomes 'unborken' to avoid situations where
broken and unbroken messages get sent in close succession, we only send an
unbroken message once the curent value is 0.1 (10%) away from the threshold.
using the ThreshHyst config variable you can customize this value.

Example for 5%:

 ThreshHyst: 0.05

=head2 ThreshMailServer (GLOBAL)

Adderss of an SMTP server which is going to accept mail about Thresholds being broken and unbroken.

=head2 ThreshMailSender (GLOBAL)

What is the sender address of the threshold mail.

Example:

 ThreshMailSender: mrtg@example.com

=head2 ThreshMailAddress (PER TARGET)

Email address for Threshold related Mails. This will only work if a mailserver has been configured.

Example:

 ThreshMailAddress[_]: admin@example.com
 ThreshMailAddress[router]:

This would bring threshold releaed mail to all but the target called 'router'.

=head2 ThreshMinI  (PER TARGET)

This is the minimum acceptable value for the Input (first) parameter.  If
the parameter falls below this value, the program specified in ThreshProgI
will be run and a mail will be sent to the ThreshMailAddress if specified.
If the value ends in '%' then the threshold is defined relative to MaxBytes.

=head2 ThreshMaxI (PER TARGET)

Works the same as TheshMinI but it acts when the value is higher than ThreshMaxI.

=head2 ThreshDesc (PER TARGET)

Its value will be assigned to the environment variable THRESH_DESC before
any of the programs mentioned below are called. The programs can use the value
of this variable to produce more user-friendly output.

=head2 ThreshProgI  (PER TARGET)

This defines a program to be run if ThreshMinI or ThreshMaxI is broken. 
MRTG passes 3 arguments: the $router variable, the threshold value
broken, and the current parameter value.

=head2 ThreshProgOKI  (PER TARGET)

This defines a program to be run if the parameter is currently OK (based on
ThreshMinI and ThreshMaxI), but wasn't OK on the previous running -- based
on the files found in ThreshDir. MRTG passes 3 arguments: the $router
variable the unbroken threshold value, and the current parameter value.

=head2 ThreshMinO, ThreshMaxO, ThreshProgO, and ThreshProgOKO

These work the same as their *I counterparts, except on the Output (second)
parameter.

=head2 SetEnv

When calling threshold scripts from within your cfg file you might want to
pass some data on to the script. This can be done with the SetEnv
configuration option which takes a series of environment variable
assignments. Note that the quotes are mandatory. This does not
work for external scripts. It is not
possible to set environment variables per target.

Example:

 SetEnv[myrouter]:  EMAIL="contact_email@someplace.net"
                    HOST="www.some_server.net"

=head2 HW Failure Bassed Threshold Checking

When using rrd based logging with HW RRAs defined. You can use the
confidence bounds violations stored in the FAILURES RRA for threshold based
alerts.

There the all target specific threshold variables have a Hold-Winters counterpart:

 ThreshMailAddress -> HWThreshMailAddress
 ThreshMinI        -> HWThreshMinI
 ...

The global variables for threshold checking are shared except for the 

 ThreshHyst        -> HWThreshHyst

And HWThreshDesc sets the HWTHRESH_DESC variable.

=head1 PER TARGET DEFAULT VALUES

=head2 Pre- and Postfix

To save yourself some typing you can define a target
called '^'. The text of every Keyword you define for this
target will be PREPENDED to the corresponding Keyword of
all the targets defined below this line. The same goes for
a Target called '$' but its text will be APPENDED.

Note that a space is inserted between the prepended text
and the Keyword value, as well as between the Keyword value
and the appended text. This works well for text-valued Keywords,
but is not very useful for other Keywords. See the "default"
target description below.

The example will make mrtg use a common header and a
common contact person in all the pages generated from
targets defined later in this file.

Example:

 PageTop[^]: <H1>NoWhere Unis Traffic Stats</H1><HR>
 PageTop[$]: Contact Peter Norton if you have any questions<HR>

To remove the prepend/append value, specify an empty value, e.g.:

 PageTop[^]:
 PageTop[$]:

=head2 NoSpaceChar

With PREPEND and APPEND (see below) there is normally a space inserted
between the local value and the PRE- or APPEND value. Sometimes this is not
desirable. You can use the global option I<NoSpaceChar> to
define a character which can be mentioned at the end of a $ or ^ definition
in order to supress the space.

Example:

  NoSpaceChar: ~
  Target[^]: 1.3.6.1.4.1.482.50.2.4.20.0&1.3.6.1.4.1.482.50.2.4.21.0:get@~
  Target[a]: a.tolna.net
  Target[b]: b.tolna.net
  Target[c]: c.tolna.net
  Target[d]: d.tolna.net

=head2 Default Values

The target name '_' specifies a default value for that
Keyword. In the absence of explicit Keyword value, the prepended
and the appended keyword value, the default value will be used.

Example:

 YSize[_]: 150
 Options[_]: growright,bits,nopercent
 WithPeak[_]: ymw
 Suppress[_]: y
 MaxBytes[_]: 1250000

To remove the default value and return to the 'factory default',
specify an empty value, e.g.:

 YLegend[_]:

There can be several instances of setting the default/prepend/append
values in the configuration file. The later setting replaces the
previous one for the rest of the configuration file.
The default/prepend/append values used for a given
keyword/target pair are the ones that were in effect
at the point in the configuration file where the target
was mentioned for the first time.

Example:

 MaxBytes[_]: 1250000
 Target[myrouter.somplace.edu.2]: 2:public@myrouter.somplace.edu
 MaxBytes[_]: 8000
 Title[myrouter.somplace.edu.2]: Traffic Analysis for myrouter.somplace.edu IF 2

The default I<MaxBytes> for the target myrouter.someplace.edu.2
in the above example will be 1250000, which was in effect
where the target name myrouter.someplace.edu.2 first appeared
in the config file.

=head1 COMMAND LINE OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--user> I<username>  and B<--group> I<groupname>

Run as the given user and/or group. (Unix Only)

=item B<--lock-file> I<filename>

Use an alternate lock-file (the default is to use the configuration-file
appended with C<_l>).

=item B<--confcache-file> I<filename>

Use an alternate confcache-file (the default is to use the
configuration-file appended with C<.ok>)

=item B<--logging> I<filename>|B<eventlog>

If this is set to writable filename, all output from mrtg (warnings, debug
messages, errors) will go to I<filename>. If you are running on Win32 you
can specify B<eventlog> instead of a filename which will send all error to
the windows event log.

B<NOTE:> Note, there is no Message DLL for mrtg included with mrtg. This has
the side effect that the windows event logger will display a nice message
with every entry in the event log, complaing about the fact that mrtg has no
message dll. If you go to the mrtg contrib download area (on the website)
you will find the mrtg-message-dll.zip which does contain such a thing.

=item B<--daemon>

Put MRTG into the background, running as a daemon. This works the same way as
the config file option, but the switch is required for proper FHS operation
(because /var/run is writable only by root)

=item B<--fhs>

Configure all mrtg paths to conform to the FHS specification;
http://www.pathname.com/fhs/

=item B<--check> 

Only check the cfg file for errors. Do not do anything.

=item B<--pid-file=s>

Define the name and path of the pid file for mrtg running as a daemon

=item B<--debug=s>

Enable debug options. The argument of the debug option is a comma separated
list of debug values:

 cfg  - watch the config file reading
 dir  - directory mangeling
 base - basic program flow 
 tarp - target parser
 snpo - snmp polling 
 coca - confcache operations
 fork - forking view 
 time - some timing info
 log  - logging of data via rateup or rrdtool
 eval - print eval strings before evaluting them
 prof - add hires timing info the rrd calls

Example:

 --debug="cfg,snpo"

=back

=head1 EXIT CODES

An exit code of 0 indicates that all targets were successful.  Generally
speaking, most codes greater than 0 indicate that there was an unrecoverable
problem.  One exception to this is code 91, which indicates that at least
one of the targets was successful.  A partial listing of the codes follows:

  0: All targets sucessful

  2: Config error (can't read, fatal error in config, etc)
 17: Another MRTG process is processing config

 91: At least one target sucessful
 92: No targets were sucessful

=head1 EXAMPLES


=head2 Minimal mrtg.cfg

 WorkDir: /usr/tardis/pub/www/stats/mrtg
 Target[r1]: 2:public@myrouter.somplace.edu
 MaxBytes[r1]: 8000
 Title[r1]: Traffic Analysis ISDN
 PageTop[r1]: <H1>Stats for our ISDN Line</H1>


=head2 Cfg for several Routers.

 WorkDir: /usr/tardis/pub/www/stats/mrtg
 Title[^]: Traffic Analysis for
 PageTop[^]: <H1>Stats for
 PageTop[$]: Contact The Chief if you notice anybody<HR>
 MaxBytes[_]: 8000
 Options[_]: growright

 Title[isdn]: our ISDN Line
 PageTop[isdn]: our ISDN Line</H1>
 Target[isdn]: 2:public@router.somplace.edu

 Title[backb]: our Campus Backbone
 PageTop[backb]: our Campus Backbone</H1>
 Target[backb]: 1:public@router.somplace.edu
 MaxBytes[backb]: 1250000

 # the following line removes the default prepend value
 # defined above

 Title[^]:

 Title[isdn2]: Traffic for the Backup ISDN Line
 PageTop[isdn2]: our ISDN Line</H1>
 Target[isdn2]: 3:public@router.somplace.edu

=head1 AUTHOR

Tobias Oetiker E<lt>tobi@oetiker.chE<gt> and many contributors
