=head1 NAME

mrtg-faq - How to get help if you have problems with MRTG

=head1 SYNOPSIS

MRTG seems to raise a lot of questions. There are a number of resources
apart from the documentation where you can find help for mrtg.

=head1 FAQ

In the following sections you'll find some additonal Frequently Asked Questions, with Answers.

=head2 Why is there no "@#$%" (my native language) version of MRTG?

Nobody has contributed a F<@#$%.pmd> file yet. Go into the
F<mrtg-2.16.2/translate> directory and create your own translation file.
When you are happy with it send it to me for inclusion with the next mrtg
release.


=head2 I need a script to make mrtg work with my xyz device.

Probably this has already been done. Check the stuff in the
F<mrtg-2.16.2/contrib> directory. There is a file called F<00INDEX> in
that directory which tells what you can find in there.

=head2 How does this SNMP thing work

There are many resources on the net that explain SNMP.
Take a look at this article from the Linux Journal by David Guerrero

 http://www.david-guerrero.com/papers/snmp/

And at this rather long document from CISCO.

 http://www.cisco.com/univercd/cc/td/doc/cisintwk/ito_doc/snmp.htm


=head2 The images created by MRTG look very strange.

Remove the *-{week,day,month,year}.png files and start MRTG
again.  Using MRTG for the first time, you might have to do this
twice. This will also help when you introduce new routers into the cfg
file.

=head2 What is my Community Name?

Ask the person in charge of your Router or try 'public', as this is the
default Community Name.


=head2 My graphs show a flat line during an outage. Why ?

Well, the short answer is that when an SNMP query goes out
and a response doesn't come back, MRTG has to assume something to put
in the graph, and by default it assumes that the last answer we got
back is probably closer to the truth than zero.  This assumption is
not perfect (as you have noticed).  It's a trade-off that happens to
fail during a total outage.

If this is an unacceptable trade-off, use the B<unknaszero> option.

You may want to know what you're trading off, so in the spirit of
trade-offs, here's the long answer:


The problem is that MRTG doesn't know *why* the data didn't come back, all
it knows is that it didn't come back.  It has to do something, and it
assumes it's a stray lost packet rather than an outage.

Why don't we always assume the circuit is down and use zero, which will
(we think) be more nearly right?  Well, it turns out that you may be
taking advantage of MRTG's "assume last" behaviour without being aware of
it.

MRTG uses SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) to collect data, and
SNMP uses UDP (User Datagram Protocol) to ship packets around.  UDP is
connectionless (not guaranteed) unlike TCP where packets are tracked and
acknowledged and, if needed, retransmitted.  UDP just throws
packets at the network and hopes they arrive.  Sometimes they don't.

One likely cause of lost SNMP data is congestion; another is busy routers.
Other possibilities include transient telecommunications problems, router
buffer overflows (which may or may not be congestion-related), "dirty
lines" (links with high error rates), and acts of God.  These things
happen all the time; we just don't notice because many interactive
services are TCP-based and the lost packets get retransmitted
automatically.

In the above cases where some SNMP packets are lost but traffic is
flowing, assuming zero is the wrong thing to do - you end up with a graph
that looks like it's missing teeth whenever the link fills up.  MRTG
interpolates the lost data to produce a smoother graph which is more
accurate in cases of intermittent packet loss.  But with V2.8.4 and above,
you can use the "unknaszero" option to produce whichever graph is best
under the conditions typical for your network.

=head1 AUTHOR

Tobias Oetiker E<lt>tobi@oetiker.chE<gt>
